# JS challenges

>_[Training](https://github.com/simplonco/training) / [JavaScript](https://github.com/simplonco/js) / Challenges_

Most of these problems are taken from [exercism.io](http://exercism.io) !

![Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo](bon-la-brute-et-le-trua-ii04-g.jpg)

The exercises are ordered roughly in order of difficulty, but it's a bit
haphazard.

## How to run tests locally?

```shell
# Install jasmine:
$ sudo apt-get install nodejs-legacy
$ sudo npm install -g jasmine-node
â€‹
# Go inside your project folder and:
$ jasmine-node *.spec.js --verbose --captureExceptions
```

http://www.commitstrip.com/fr/2016/02/22/when-the-functional-tests-are-all-red/

## Hello World

Write a program that greets the user by name, or by saying "Hello,
World!" if no name is given.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-hello-world/)


## FizzBuzz

1, 2, Fizz, 3, Buzz, Fizz

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-fizzbuzz/)


## Leap

Write a program that will take a year and report if it is a leap year.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-leap/)


## Hamming

Write a program that can calculate the Hamming difference between two
DNA strands.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-hamming/)


## Rna Transcription

Write a program that, given a DNA strand, returns its RNA complement
(per RNA transcription).

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-rna-transcription/)


## Bob

Bob is a lackadaisical teenager. In conversation, his responses are very
limited.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-bob/)


## Gigasecond

Write a program that will calculate the date that someone turned or will
celebrate their 1 Gs anniversary.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-gigasecond/)


## Word Count

Write a program that given a phrase can count the occurrences of each
word in that phrase.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-word-count/)


## Pangram

Determine if a sentence is a pangram.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-pangram/)


## Beer Song

Write a program which produces the lyrics to that beloved classic, that
field-trip favorite: 99 Bottles of Beer on the Wall.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-beer-song/)


## Phone Number

Write a program that cleans up user-entered phone numbers so that they
can be sent SMS messages.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-phone-number/)


## Anagram

Write a program that, given a word and a list of possible anagrams,
selects the correct sublist.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-anagram/)


## Food Chain

Write a program that generates the lyrics of the song 'I Know an Old
Lady Who Swallowed a Fly'

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-food-chain/)


## Grade School

Write a small archiving program that stores students' names along with
the grade that they are in.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-grade-school/)


## Robot Name

Write a program that manages robot factory settings.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-robot-name/)


## Etl

We are going to do the \`Transform\` step of an Extract-Transform-Load.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-etl/)


## Space Age

Write a program that, given an age in seconds, calculates how old
someone is in terms of a given planet's solar years.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-space-age/)


## Grains

Write a program that calculates the number of grains of wheat on a
chessboard given that the number on each square doubles.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-grains/)


## Triangle

Write a program that can tell you if a triangle is equilateral,
isosceles, or scalene.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-triangle/)


## Clock

Implement a clock that handles times without dates.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-clock/)


## Acronym

Convert a long phrase to its acronym

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-acronym/)


## Scrabble Score

Write a program that, given a word, computes the scrabble score for that
word.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-scrabble-score/)


## Roman Numerals

Write a function to convert from normal numbers to Roman Numerals: e.g.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-roman-numerals/)


## Circular Buffer

A data structure that uses a single, fixed-size buffer as if it were
connected end-to-end.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-circular-buffer/)


## Binary

Write a program that will convert a binary number, represented as a
string (e.g. '101010'), to its decimal equivalent using first principles

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-binary/)


## Prime Factors

Compute the prime factors of a given natural number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-prime-factors/)


## Raindrops

Write a program that converts a number to a string, the contents of
which depends on the number's prime factors.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-raindrops/)


## Allergies

Write a program that, given a person's allergy score, can tell them
whether or not they're allergic to a given item, and their full list of
allergies.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-allergies/)


## Strain

Implement the \`keep\` and \`discard\` operation on collections. Given a
collection and a predicate on the collection's elements, \`keep\`
returns a new collection containing those elements where the predicate
is true, while \`discard\` returns a new collection containing those
elements where the predicate is false.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-strain/)


## Atbash Cipher

Create an implementation of the atbash cipher, an ancient encryption
system created in the Middle East.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-atbash-cipher/)


## Accumulate

Implement the \`accumulate\` operation, which, given a collection and an
operation to perform on each element of the collection, returns a new
collection containing the result of applying that operation to each
element of the input collection.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-accumulate/)


## Crypto Square

Implement the classic method for composing secret messages called a
square code.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-crypto-square/)


## Trinary

Write a program that will convert a trinary number, represented as a
string (e.g. '102012'), to its decimal equivalent using first
principles.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-trinary/)


## Sieve

Write a program that uses the Sieve of Eratosthenes to find all the
primes from 2 up to a given number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-sieve/)


## Simple Cipher

Implement a simple shift cipher like Caesar and a more secure
substitution cipher

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-simple-cipher/)


## Octal

Write a program that will convert a octal number, represented as a
string (e.g. '1735263'), to its decimal equivalent using first
principles (i.e. no, you may not use built-in or external libraries to
accomplish the conversion).

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-octal/)


## Luhn

Write a program that can take a number and determine whether or not it
is valid per the Luhn formula.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-luhn/)


## Pig Latin

Implement a program that translates from English to Pig Latin

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-pig-latin/)


## Pythagorean Triplet

There exists exactly one Pythagorean triplet for which a + b + c = 1000.
Find the product a \* b \* c.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-pythagorean-triplet/)


## Series

Write a program that will take a string of digits and give you all the
contiguous substrings of length \`n\` in that string.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-series/)


## Difference Of Squares

Find the difference between the sum of the squares and the square of the
sums of the first N natural numbers.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-difference-of-squares/)


## Secret Handshake

Write a program that will take a decimal number, and convert it to the
appropriate sequence of events for a secret handshake.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-secret-handshake/)


## Linked List

Implement a doubly linked list

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-linked-list/)


## Wordy

Write a program that takes a word problem and returns the answer as an
integer.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-wordy/)


## Hexadecimal

Write a program that will convert a hexadecimal number, represented as a
string (e.g. "10af8c"), to its decimal equivalent using first principles
(i.e. no, you may not use built-in or external libraries to accomplish
the conversion).

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-hexadecimal/)


## Largest Series Product

Write a program that, when given a string of digits, can calculate the
largest product for a contiguous substring of digits of length n.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-largest-series-product/)


## Kindergarten Garden

Write a program that, given a diagram, can tell you which plants each
child in the kindergarten class is responsible for.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-kindergarten-garden/)


## Binary Search

Write a program that implements a binary search algorithm.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-binary-search/)


## Binary Search Tree

Write a program that inserts numbers and searches in a binary tree.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-binary-search-tree/)


## Matrix

Write a program that, given a string representing a matrix of numbers,
can return the rows and columns of that matrix.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-matrix/)


## Robot Simulator

Write a robot simulator.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-robot-simulator/)


## Nth Prime

Write a program that can tell you what the nth prime is.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-nth-prime/)


## Palindrome Products

Write a program that can detect palindrome products in a given range.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-palindrome-products/)


## Pascals Triangle

Write a program that computes Pascal's triangle up to a given number of
rows.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-pascals-triangle/)


## Say

Write a program that will take a number from 0 to 999,999,999,999 and
spell out that number in English.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-say/)


## Custom Set

Create a custom set type.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-custom-set/)


## Sum Of Multiples

Write a program that, given a number, can find the sum of all the
multiples of particular numbers up to but not including that number.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-sum-of-multiples/)


## Queen Attack

Write a program that positions two queens on a chess board and indicates
whether or not they are positioned so that they can attack each other.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-queen-attack/)


## Saddle Points

Write a program that detects saddle points in a matrix.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-saddle-points/)


## Ocr Numbers

Write a program that, given a 3 x 4 grid of pipes, underscores, and
spaces, can determine which number is represented, or whether it is
garbled.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-ocr-numbers/)


## Meetup

Calculate the date of meetups.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-meetup/)


## Bracket Push

Make sure the brackets and braces all match.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-bracket-push/)


## Two Bucket

Given two buckets of different size, write a program to demonstrate how
to measure an exact number of liters.

[README](https://github.com/simplonco/js-two-bucket/)
